(cheerful music)
A pretty common thing
that you wanna do in a website
is you wanna have like a settings page
where you control everything
from little things like headlines over to selecting content
that you wanna put on the homepage.
And these are what I like to call like, options pages
or one-off pages, meaning that
they still need to be stored in the database
just like the people, and the pizzas, and everything else,
but there's not gonna be multiple of them.
There's only going to be one page of them.
So, that's a pretty common thing.
I've done that in dozens of sites
for clients over the years.
And I thought I'd show you how to do that
because on the homepage,
I want someone to be able to go into the backend here,
and click on something in the sidebar,
and then be able to select, who is currently working
and what pizzas are currently available by the slice.
And we wanna pull that data
into our front end of our website.
So, we're gonna be cracking open the sanity folder.
So, actually I gotta kill this real quick and open it up.
And I'm gonna run it again and PM start.
Right, so, we are in the sanity.
So, first thing we need to do is to make a schema
for that setting.
Now, the way that sanity does it
is no different than any other data type.
It allows you to create multiple versions of a,
I guess settings page or something like that.
However, we're going to restrict
creating multiple versions of them
by modifying the sidebar that we have right here.
Let's open up our pizza schema,
and just duplicate the whole sucker
over to storesettings.js.
And let's just go through each one of these things
line by line.
So, here we have, we'll say MDStore.
We don't need our custom price input.
The name is going to be store settings.
The title is going to be capital S settings.
Type is the document.
Icon is what we imported earlier up here.
The fields that we have,
okay, so, let's just go ahead and delete all the fields
and actually everything else that we have.
So, delete all the fields,
and delete all the preview metadata.
We'll come back to that in just a second.
So, fields that we have.
First field is going to be
a slicemasters field.
The title is going to be
slicemasters currently slicing.
The type is going to be an array
because it's gonna be an array of slicemasters.
So, the type is an array of array type,
and it's going to be a reference.
Remember we're going to link it to a list of other ones.
A reference to, this is another array, hokey smokes.
Type of person.
And again, that person comes from this, which is a person.
You have a name of person right here.
Okay, good.
So, that's a very basic.
Let's just make sure this is up and running.
Let's go into our schema.js,
and we will import store settings.
And then we'll just pop that sucker into the store settings.
Now, this should show up in our sanity backend.
There we go.
Settings, and there are no settings,
and it will allow us to create
a new set of store settings.
Don't create one yet because we're gonna manually make it.
But you can see here,
I'll be able to add, where's Enock?
Here he is.
And you get the point, right?
So, that's good.
Then we'll just go ahead and duplicate that field,
and we'll call the next one, hot slices.
And then we'll see,
hot slices available in the case.
And we want it to be an array to pizza.
And we save.
And this should refresh.
Here we go, hot slices.
You can select the different pizzas that show up.
Again, I'm on slow internet,
that's why it's taking a second to show up.
All right, so, that is our first one.
Let's actually pop a quick name field on here too,
'cause like, if you add it,
it like, doesn't know like,
what to put in this preview here.
So, let's just go into pizza.
Let's grab the name field,
pop it in here,
and then just say,
we'll call it a store name because
the kind of the cool thing about this that we have here
is even though we are gonna be able to do a one off,
the whole idea is that
it's still a repeatable piece of content,
so that if you opened up a second store,
you wouldn't have to like, copy paste this.
You'd still be able to create a settings page
for a secondary store without much extra effort,
which is pretty cool.
So, look at this.
We've got two of them here,
just cause these are saved drafts
just as I was talking to you, it's shown up,
and then we have the name.
You can pop the name in there.
Okay, cool.
Now, the next step that we wanna have is
we don't want to have the settings page here,
although that wouldn't be the end of the world.
Like, you could just say like the Hamilton store,
and then save that.
But you always like, run the chance that
somebody would come in here and be like,
"Hey, I created a new store
'cause I couldn't figure out how to edit the old one."
And we don't necessarily want that.
We just want a settings thing in the sidebar here
that goes directly to this edit screen,
and doesn't allow the user to create multiple stores
and sort of get confusion like that.
And that's the kind of finesse that
I think makes a really good website,
and you're not gonna get calls at two in the morning
from an angry client cause they goofed it up.
So, the way that we do that is
just go into your sanity core here,
and by core, I mean just the root folder,
and make a sidebar.js,
then inside there, we're going to import react from react.
We're going to import capital S from,
and this is long.
So, hold onto your parts.
It's @sanity/desktool/structure-builder.
And this is just the internal sanity studio,
similar to how we created our own input.
We're now going to be using their own tool
to create a custom sidebar file.
Then before we go any further,
we wanna go into our sanity.json file,
and we need to let sanity know about this extra part
that we have here.
So, you see this one part we have right here,
we'll put a comma after that,
open another set of curly brackets,
and we'll say the name is part:@sanity,
It's not base schema, it's desk tool/structure.
And sanity has a bunch of examples of this.
Make sure you put that in quotes
'cause this is JSON not JavaScript.
And then the path to that is going to be
/./sidebar.js.
I believe we now have to,
not sure if we need to kill the builder or not, we'll see.
Well, let's try that.
Now, let's jump back into our sidebar,
and this is where we get to building our custom sidebar.
So, build a custom sidebar.
So, we'll export default function.
We'll call it sidebar.
And from that we'll return s.list.
And let's just kinda go through that one by one.
So, let's refresh this page now that we just ran s.list.
Doesn't look like anything has changed, okay?
Okay, good.
Then on top of that, we need a .title,
and that is Slick's Slices.
I'm gonna use back ticks there,
so, I don't have to worry about escaping it.
And this will give us like, a sort of,
you see how it's just this content right now?
We're gonna replace that
with our own title called Slick's Slices.
And then underneath that,
we're gonna say the items are an array of
s.listitem.
So, we're gonna create a new item.
Maybe I should comment this.
A new sub item.
And a chain onto that is a .title.
Notice how I'm not putting semi-colons on here
just cause we are chaining forever.
The title will be the homepage.
Let's see what that gives us so far.
This should at least show up.
And if it's not, we know we did something wrong.
Okay, nothing's showing up yet.
So, I bet we need to kill our build and restart it.
Here we go, okay.
So, now, that we killed it,
you see that we are creating a custom sidebar
that is in here.
So, now, we just have homepage, and you click that,
it goes to nothing, right?
So, that's good 'cause we haven't finished yet.
So, on top of that,
we can chain a .icon,
and an icon is just an inline function
that returns a strong tag with a,
let's just put a fire emoji in there.
And again, you could import an icon
just like we did from react icons.
I'm just gonna show you here
how you can make literally any react component,
and it should swap itself out.
There we go.
Okay, good.
Then the children of that.
So, let's say .child.
And inside of that s.editor
and .schematype.
It's gonna be store settings.
Again, that lines up with this schema right here.
So, we're saying,
create an editor, like when someone clicks on it,
create an editor for the schema type, and
link it to the document ID of,
and now, what is the document ID?
Well, normally in our backend here,
let me go to one that I have right here.
Is if you like, go to a pizza
and you click on one of the pizzas,
the document ID is this, right?
It's just a random number that we have here.
However, you can
customize what that document ID is.
And in our case,
we can just pass it a document ID that does not exist
and it will just create it for us.
So, make a new document ID
so we don't have a random string of numbers.
So, the document ID is going to just be,
we'll call it downtown.
Like that's the downtown location.
I got a red.
There should be a dot in front of that.
And I would take a look at what we got.
It's opened it up.
It looks like it's picking up the data
that I was working with earlier.
So, let's go and just nuke that, delete it.
And let's delete this one as well.
Oh, no, there we go.
You see, if there are no documents,
it will then create a new one for you,
which is what we want
and it will give it the ID of downtown.
That's good.
And then the other thing we wanna do is just like
add in the rest
of our document items.
And in this case,
we don't need to manually do all this huge song and dance.
We can simply just say
...s.documenttypelistitems.
So, document type list items.
And that should populate the rest of the...
Oh, there we go.
Pizzas topping slice masters,
and now it still shows us settings.
So, we'll have to do one more thing
and actually remove that settings value from here
because we don't want anyone to actually see this interface.
We only want them to be able to edit the homepage data
from the sidebar here.
And the way that we do that is
because this just returns an array,
we can just do a regular filter on that.
And we will say for each item that it returns,
check if the item.id,
so, we run item.getid
is not equal to,
in our case, it's store settings.
And that should just filter out a list of all of them.
This will rebuild and that should be gone forever.
Beautiful, okay.
So, now, let's just say like, downtown store.
Let's add a couple slice masters currently slicing.
Ooh, what's this?
Must be a reference to a document.
It is.
Good.
Close ad.
So, I'm just gonna go ahead and fill this out
with four pizzas and four people.
And the next video we'll look at
pulling those into the front end.
All right, I've got my four values here
and I can always go to it by clicking on the homepage.
All right, so, that's that.
In the next video,
we'll look at pulling them into the front end.